Git - It is a free, open source and version control system.
Version Control System - It is a tool that helps to track chnages in code.
It tracks history.
It helps in collaboration.

GitHub - It is a website where we host our repositories online.

Using Git
Command Line(Most Popular)
IDE(VS code)
GUI(like Gitkraken,GitHub Desktop,Sourcetree)

Configure Git
It means setting up the basic information before using git.
git config --global user.name "RIYAYADAV08"
git config --global user.email "riya080305@gmail.com"
git config --list

Basic Commands
Clone - Cloning a repostory on our local machine.
git clone link
Status - display the state of the code.
git status
Workflow
Untracked-add the file-unmodified-edit the file-modified-stage the file-staged-commit
add- add new or changed files in your working directory to the git staging area.
ek file add karne ke liye git add then file name
ek saath sari git add .
Commit -It is the record of Change.
git commit -m "some message"

Push Command -git push -u origin main (used the first time to push a branch and set the upstream).
git push -uske baad har baar (used after the upstream is set to push changes to the tracked branch).
git push origin main - Used to push changes directly to the main branch by speifying the remote and branch name.


git init - creates a new Git repository.
git remote add origin link - connect your local repository to remote Github Repository.
git remote -v -> Displays the remote repositories connected to your local repository.
git branch - Lists all local branches and shows the current branch.
git branch -M main - Rename the current branch to main.
git checkout <branch-name> - Used to switch from the current branch to another existing branch.
git checkout -b <branch-name> - Used to create a new branch and immediately switch to it.
git branch -d <branch-name> - Used to delete a local branch after it has been merged.


Complete Flow
git init
git add .
git commit -m "Initial commit"
git branch -M main
git remote add origin <repository-link>
git push -u origin main

WorkFlow Of Git and GitHub
GitHub - code changes-commit.
git - code changes-add -commit-push.
github - code changes - commit.


